README.md, before:

# Manage vaccinations in schools – Prototype

This is a service for recording children vaccinations with the NHS. This version
is a prototype used for testing service designs and implementation technology.

# Development

## Prerequisites

This project depends on:

- [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/)
- [Ruby on Rails](https://rubyonrails.org/)
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/)

The instructions below assume you are using `asdf` to manage the necessary
versions of the above.

## Application architecture

We keep track of architecture decisions in [Architecture Decision Records
(ADRs)](/adr/).

We use `rladr` to generate the boilerplate for new records:

```bash
bin/bundle exec rladr new title
```

## Development toolchain

### asdf

This project uses `asdf`. Use the following to install the required tools:

```sh
# Install dependencies
brew install gcc readline zlib curl ossp-uuid # Mac-specific
export HOMEBREW_PREFIX=/opt/homebrew          # Mac-specific

# The first time
brew install asdf                             # Mac-specific
asdf plugin add aws-copilot
asdf plugin add awscli
asdf plugin add nodejs
asdf plugin add postgres
asdf plugin add ruby
asdf plugin add yarn

# To install (or update, following a change to .tool-versions)
asdf install
```

When installing the `pg` gem, bundle changes directory outside of this
project directory, causing it lose track of which version of postgres has
been selected in the project's `.tool-versions` file. To ensure the `pg` gem
installs correctly, you'll want to set the version of postgres that `asdf`
will use:

```sh
# Temporarily set the version of postgres to use to build the pg gem
ASDF_POSTGRES_VERSION=13.5 bundle install
```

After installing Postgres via `asdf`, run the database in the background, and
connect to it to create a user:

```sh
$ pg_ctl start
$ psql -U postgres
> CREATE USER myuser;
> ALTER USER myuser WITH SUPERUSER;
```

### Local development

To set the project up locally:

```bash
bin/setup
bin/dev
```

#### Yarn

If you encounter:

```sh
No yarn executable found for nodejs 18.1.0
```

You need to reshim nodejs:

```sh
asdf reshim nodejs
```

### Linting

To run the linters:

```bash
bin/lint
```

### Intellisense

[solargraph](https://github.com/castwide/solargraph) is bundled as part of the
development dependencies. You need to [set it up for your
editor](https://github.com/castwide/solargraph#using-solargraph), and then run
this command to index your local bundle (re-run if/when we install new
dependencies and you want completion):

```sh
bin/bundle exec yard gems
```

You'll also need to configure your editor's `solargraph` plugin to
`useBundler`:

```diff
+  "solargraph.useBundler": true,
```

### PostgreSQL

The script `bin/db` is included to start up PostgreSQL for setups that don't use
system-started services, such as `asdf` which is our default. Note that this is
meant to be a handy script to manage PostgreSQL, not run a console like `rails db`
does.

```
$ bin/db
pg_ctl: no server running
$ bin/db start
waiting for server to start.... done
server started
$ bin/db
pg_ctl: server is running (PID: 79113)
/Users/misaka/.asdf/installs/postgres/13.5/bin/postgres
```

This script attempts to be installation agnostic by relying on `pg_config` to
determine postgres's installation directory and setting up logging accordingly.

### Development server

This application comes with a `concurrently` script for development
environments. Use script `bin/dev` to run it:

```bash
$ bin/dev
[web] rails server
[css] yarn build:css --watch
[js] yarn build --watch
[sw] yarn build:serviceworker --watch
...
```

### Testing

To run the Rails tests:

```bash
bin/bundle exec rspec
```

To run the JS unit tests:

```bash
yarn test
```

To run the Playwright end to end tests use:

```bash
yarn test:e2e
```

To [generate tests interactively by clicking in a live browser](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen):

```bash
yarn playwright codegen http://localhost:4000
```

## Example campaigns

You can generate an example campaign with a few sessions in development by visiting `/reset`.

### Adding a test user

You can add a new user to an environment using the `add_new_user` rake task:

```
rails add_new_user['user@example.com','password123','John Doe',1]
```

## Previewing view components

[ViewComponent previews](https://viewcomponent.org/guide/previews.html) are enabled in development and test environments. In development, they are here:

    http://localhost:4000/rails/view_components

The previews are defined in `spec/components/previews`.

## Deploying

This app can be deployed to AWS using AWS Copilot. Once authenticated, you can
run:

```sh
$ bin/deploy test
```

See [docs/aws-copilot.md](docs/aws-copilot.md) for more information.

## Notify

When developing locally, emails are sent using the `:file` delivery method, and
logged to `STDOUT`.

If you want to use Notify, you'll need to set up a test API key, and then set
up a `config/settings/development.local.yml` file:

```yml
govuk_notify:
  enabled: true
  api_key: YOUR_KEY_HERE
```

You should set it to `enabled: false` when you're done testing Notify locally,
because it's easier to work offline without it.

## Care Identity Service (CIS2)

This service uses [NHS's CIS2 Care Identity Authentication
service](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/api-catalogue/nhs-cis2-care-identity-authentication)
to perform OIDC authentication for users.

You can retrieve the issuer URL from the appropriate endpoint listed on [CIS2 Guidance Discovery
page](https://digital.nhs.uk/services/care-identity-service/applications-and-services/cis2-authentication/guidance-for-developers/detailed-guidance/discovery):

```sh
$ curl -s https://am.nhsdev.auth-ptl.cis2.spineservices.nhs.uk/openam/oauth2/realms/root/realms/oidc/.well-known/openid-configuration | jq ".issuer"
"https://am.nhsdev.auth-ptl.cis2.spineservices.nhs.uk:443/openam/oauth2/realms/root/realms/oidc"
```

New client ids and secrets can be obtained from the NHS CIS2 Authentication team
(<nhscareidentityauthentication@nhs.net>).

Put the `issuer`, `client_id` and `secret` into the Settings for your env:

```yml
cis2:
  issuer: "https://am.nhsdev.auth-ptl.cis2.spineservices.nhs.uk:443/openam/oauth2/realms/root/realms/oidc"
  client_id: CLIENT_ID
  secret: SECRET
```

The `cis2` feature flag also needs to be enabled in Flipper for CIS2 logins to work.

### Reply-To

GOVUK Notify can store reply-to email addresses and use them when sending mail.
Once you've added the reply-to email in GOVUK Notify, get the UUID and add it to
the team.

## Licence

[MIT](LICENCE).

Commit message:

Add bin/test script
This adds a script, similar to bin/lint, which automatically runs all
the tests in one go. It's meant to be used for convenience when needing
to run all the test, but won't replace CI or the running RSpec directly.

README.md, after:

# Manage vaccinations in schools – Prototype

This is a service for recording children vaccinations with the NHS. This version
is a prototype used for testing service designs and implementation technology.

# Development

## Prerequisites

This project depends on:

- [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/)
- [Ruby on Rails](https://rubyonrails.org/)
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)
- [Postgres](https://www.postgresql.org/)

The instructions below assume you are using `asdf` to manage the necessary
versions of the above.

## Application architecture

We keep track of architecture decisions in [Architecture Decision Records
(ADRs)](/adr/).

We use `rladr` to generate the boilerplate for new records:

```bash
bin/bundle exec rladr new title
```

## Development toolchain

### asdf

This project uses `asdf`. Use the following to install the required tools:

```sh
# Install dependencies
brew install gcc readline zlib curl ossp-uuid # Mac-specific
export HOMEBREW_PREFIX=/opt/homebrew          # Mac-specific

# The first time
brew install asdf                             # Mac-specific
asdf plugin add aws-copilot
asdf plugin add awscli
asdf plugin add nodejs
asdf plugin add postgres
asdf plugin add ruby
asdf plugin add yarn

# To install (or update, following a change to .tool-versions)
asdf install
```

When installing the `pg` gem, bundle changes directory outside of this
project directory, causing it lose track of which version of postgres has
been selected in the project's `.tool-versions` file. To ensure the `pg` gem
installs correctly, you'll want to set the version of postgres that `asdf`
will use:

```sh
# Temporarily set the version of postgres to use to build the pg gem
ASDF_POSTGRES_VERSION=13.5 bundle install
```

After installing Postgres via `asdf`, run the database in the background, and
connect to it to create a user:

```sh
$ pg_ctl start
$ psql -U postgres
> CREATE USER myuser;
> ALTER USER myuser WITH SUPERUSER;
```

### Local development

To set the project up locally:

```bash
bin/setup
bin/dev
```

#### Yarn

If you encounter:

```sh
No yarn executable found for nodejs 18.1.0
```

You need to reshim nodejs:

```sh
asdf reshim nodejs
```

### Linting

To run the linters:

```bash
bin/lint
```

### Intellisense

[solargraph](https://github.com/castwide/solargraph) is bundled as part of the
development dependencies. You need to [set it up for your
editor](https://github.com/castwide/solargraph#using-solargraph), and then run
this command to index your local bundle (re-run if/when we install new
dependencies and you want completion):

```sh
bin/bundle exec yard gems
```

You'll also need to configure your editor's `solargraph` plugin to
`useBundler`:

```diff
+  "solargraph.useBundler": true,
```

### PostgreSQL

The script `bin/db` is included to start up PostgreSQL for setups that don't use
system-started services, such as `asdf` which is our default. Note that this is
meant to be a handy script to manage PostgreSQL, not run a console like `rails db`
does.

```
$ bin/db
pg_ctl: no server running
$ bin/db start
waiting for server to start.... done
server started
$ bin/db
pg_ctl: server is running (PID: 79113)
/Users/misaka/.asdf/installs/postgres/13.5/bin/postgres
```

This script attempts to be installation agnostic by relying on `pg_config` to
determine postgres's installation directory and setting up logging accordingly.

### Development server

This application comes with a `concurrently` script for development
environments. Use script `bin/dev` to run it:

```bash
$ bin/dev
[web] rails server
[css] yarn build:css --watch
[js] yarn build --watch
[sw] yarn build:serviceworker --watch
...
```

### Testing

To run all the test:

```bash
bin/test
```

To run the Rails tests:

```bash
bin/bundle exec rspec
```

To run the JS unit tests:

```bash
yarn test
```

To run the Playwright end to end tests use:

```bash
yarn test:e2e
```

To [generate tests interactively by clicking in a live browser](https://playwright.dev/docs/codegen):

```bash
yarn playwright codegen http://localhost:4000
```

## Example campaigns

You can generate an example campaign with a few sessions in development by visiting `/reset`.

### Adding a test user

You can add a new user to an environment using the `add_new_user` rake task:

```
rails add_new_user['user@example.com','password123','John Doe',1]
```

## Previewing view components

[ViewComponent previews](https://viewcomponent.org/guide/previews.html) are enabled in development and test environments. In development, they are here:

    http://localhost:4000/rails/view_components

The previews are defined in `spec/components/previews`.

## Deploying

This app can be deployed to AWS using AWS Copilot. Once authenticated, you can
run:

```sh
$ bin/deploy test
```

See [docs/aws-copilot.md](docs/aws-copilot.md) for more information.

## Notify

When developing locally, emails are sent using the `:file` delivery method, and
logged to `STDOUT`.

If you want to use Notify, you'll need to set up a test API key, and then set
up a `config/settings/development.local.yml` file:

```yml
govuk_notify:
  enabled: true
  api_key: YOUR_KEY_HERE
```

You should set it to `enabled: false` when you're done testing Notify locally,
because it's easier to work offline without it.

## Care Identity Service (CIS2)

This service uses [NHS's CIS2 Care Identity Authentication
service](https://digital.nhs.uk/developer/api-catalogue/nhs-cis2-care-identity-authentication)
to perform OIDC authentication for users.

You can retrieve the issuer URL from the appropriate endpoint listed on [CIS2 Guidance Discovery
page](https://digital.nhs.uk/services/care-identity-service/applications-and-services/cis2-authentication/guidance-for-developers/detailed-guidance/discovery):

```sh
$ curl -s https://am.nhsdev.auth-ptl.cis2.spineservices.nhs.uk/openam/oauth2/realms/root/realms/oidc/.well-known/openid-configuration | jq ".issuer"
"https://am.nhsdev.auth-ptl.cis2.spineservices.nhs.uk:443/openam/oauth2/realms/root/realms/oidc"
```

New client ids and secrets can be obtained from the NHS CIS2 Authentication team
(<nhscareidentityauthentication@nhs.net>).

Put the `issuer`, `client_id` and `secret` into the Settings for your env:

```yml
cis2:
  issuer: "https://am.nhsdev.auth-ptl.cis2.spineservices.nhs.uk:443/openam/oauth2/realms/root/realms/oidc"
  client_id: CLIENT_ID
  secret: SECRET
```

The `cis2` feature flag also needs to be enabled in Flipper for CIS2 logins to work.

### Reply-To

GOVUK Notify can store reply-to email addresses and use them when sending mail.
Once you've added the reply-to email in GOVUK Notify, get the UUID and add it to
the team.

## Licence

[MIT](LICENCE).
